.github/instructions/markdown.instructions.md, before:

---
description: 'Documentation and content creation standards'
applyTo: '**/*.md'
---

## Markdown Content Rules

The following markdown content rules are enforced in the validators:

1. **Headings**: Use appropriate heading levels (H2, H3, etc.) to structure your content. Do not use an H1 heading, as this will be generated based on the title.
2. **Lists**: Use bullet points or numbered lists for lists. Ensure proper indentation and spacing.
3. **Code Blocks**: Use fenced code blocks for code snippets. Specify the language for syntax highlighting.
4. **Links**: Use proper markdown syntax for links. Ensure that links are valid and accessible.
5. **Images**: Use proper markdown syntax for images. Include alt text for accessibility.
6. **Tables**: Use markdown tables for tabular data. Ensure proper formatting and alignment.
7. **Line Length**: Limit line length to 400 characters for readability.
8. **Whitespace**: Use appropriate whitespace to separate sections and improve readability.
9. **Front Matter**: Include YAML front matter at the beginning of the file with required metadata fields.

## Formatting and Structure

Follow these guidelines for formatting and structuring your markdown content:

- **Headings**: Use `##` for H2 and `###` for H3. Ensure that headings are used in a hierarchical manner. Recommend restructuring if content includes H4, and more strongly recommend for H5.
- **Lists**: Use `-` for bullet points and `1.` for numbered lists. Indent nested lists with two spaces.
- **Code Blocks**: Use triple backticks (`) to create fenced code blocks. Specify the language after the opening backticks for syntax highlighting (e.g., `csharp).
- **Links**: Use `[link text](URL)` for links. Ensure that the link text is descriptive and the URL is valid.
- **Images**: Use `![alt text](image URL)` for images. Include a brief description of the image in the alt text.
- **Tables**: Use `|` to create tables. Ensure that columns are properly aligned and headers are included.
- **Line Length**: Break lines at 80 characters to improve readability. Use soft line breaks for long paragraphs.
- **Whitespace**: Use blank lines to separate sections and improve readability. Avoid excessive whitespace.

## Validation Requirements

Ensure compliance with the following validation requirements:

- **Front Matter**: Include the following fields in the YAML front matter:

  - `post_title`: The title of the post.
  - `author1`: The primary author of the post.
  - `post_slug`: The URL slug for the post.
  - `microsoft_alias`: The Microsoft alias of the author.
  - `featured_image`: The URL of the featured image.
  - `categories`: The categories for the post. These categories must be from the list in /categories.txt.
  - `tags`: The tags for the post.
  - `ai_note`: Indicate if AI was used in the creation of the post.
  - `summary`: A brief summary of the post. Recommend a summary based on the content when possible.
  - `post_date`: The publication date of the post.

- **Content Rules**: Ensure that the content follows the markdown content rules specified above.
- **Formatting**: Ensure that the content is properly formatted and structured according to the guidelines.
- **Validation**: Run the validation tools to check for compliance with the rules and guidelines.

Commit message:

chore(ai-config): add file classification system and migrate to main branch (#120)
- Add github-config-classification.instructions.md with decision matrix
- Update github-labels skill with special file type classifications
- Clarify type:docs excludes AI config files in labels.yml
- Narrow markdown.instructions.md applyTo scope
- Add classification table to GitChaos Organizer agent
- Add classification rules to organize-chaos prompt
- Remove VERSION file dependency from workflows
- Migrate all branch references from v{version}/development to main
- Simplify branching strategy to single main-branch workflow

Closes #117

.github/instructions/markdown.instructions.md, after:

---
description: 'Documentation and content creation standards for regular markdown files (not agents, skills, instructions, or prompts)'
applyTo: '**/docs/**/*.md, **/README.md, **/CHANGELOG.md, **/CONTRIBUTING.md, **/SUPPORT.md, **/SECURITY.md, **/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md'
---

## Markdown Content Rules

The following markdown content rules are enforced in the validators:

1. **Headings**: Use appropriate heading levels (H2, H3, etc.) to structure your content. Do not use an H1 heading, as this will be generated based on the title.
2. **Lists**: Use bullet points or numbered lists for lists. Ensure proper indentation and spacing.
3. **Code Blocks**: Use fenced code blocks for code snippets. Specify the language for syntax highlighting.
4. **Links**: Use proper markdown syntax for links. Ensure that links are valid and accessible.
5. **Images**: Use proper markdown syntax for images. Include alt text for accessibility.
6. **Tables**: Use markdown tables for tabular data. Ensure proper formatting and alignment.
7. **Line Length**: Limit line length to 400 characters for readability.
8. **Whitespace**: Use appropriate whitespace to separate sections and improve readability.
9. **Front Matter**: Include YAML front matter at the beginning of the file with required metadata fields.

## Formatting and Structure

Follow these guidelines for formatting and structuring your markdown content:

- **Headings**: Use `##` for H2 and `###` for H3. Ensure that headings are used in a hierarchical manner. Recommend restructuring if content includes H4, and more strongly recommend for H5.
- **Lists**: Use `-` for bullet points and `1.` for numbered lists. Indent nested lists with two spaces.
- **Code Blocks**: Use triple backticks (`) to create fenced code blocks. Specify the language after the opening backticks for syntax highlighting (e.g., `csharp).
- **Links**: Use `[link text](URL)` for links. Ensure that the link text is descriptive and the URL is valid.
- **Images**: Use `![alt text](image URL)` for images. Include a brief description of the image in the alt text.
- **Tables**: Use `|` to create tables. Ensure that columns are properly aligned and headers are included.
- **Line Length**: Break lines at 80 characters to improve readability. Use soft line breaks for long paragraphs.
- **Whitespace**: Use blank lines to separate sections and improve readability. Avoid excessive whitespace.

## Validation Requirements

Ensure compliance with the following validation requirements:

- **Front Matter**: Include the following fields in the YAML front matter:

  - `post_title`: The title of the post.
  - `author1`: The primary author of the post.
  - `post_slug`: The URL slug for the post.
  - `microsoft_alias`: The Microsoft alias of the author.
  - `featured_image`: The URL of the featured image.
  - `categories`: The categories for the post. These categories must be from the list in /categories.txt.
  - `tags`: The tags for the post.
  - `ai_note`: Indicate if AI was used in the creation of the post.
  - `summary`: A brief summary of the post. Recommend a summary based on the content when possible.
  - `post_date`: The publication date of the post.

- **Content Rules**: Ensure that the content follows the markdown content rules specified above.
- **Formatting**: Ensure that the content is properly formatted and structured according to the guidelines.
- **Validation**: Run the validation tools to check for compliance with the rules and guidelines.
